# cs310-csv-json

Synopsis: The purpose of this program is to allow data that has been presented in either a csv or json format to be converted and displayed in the other's format. This program was also meant to both teach and act as a refresher in programming basics for students in the Software Enginnering I class. The convterter test as a whole and the large skeletal structure of the program were given to us by our instructor Jay Snellen, while the intricates and actual conversion process code were written by myself, the output from both converters should come back in the form of strings.

The csv to json converter starts off with creating a new csv reader that can take in the data and pass it through in the form of a string.
After the reader is constructed and initialized two new string arraysare created. One is called "reader" and it will hold all of the information that the csv reader brings in, and the other is called "iterator." Its job is to parse through everything that reader brought in while said data goes through a while loop, as shown below.
            
            List<String[]> full = reader.readAll();
            Iterator<String[]> iterator = full.iterator();
            while(iterator.hasNext())
            
An empty string called "results" is created so that when the final product is reached, it will be placed in results and then finally displated as a result when the java test file calls for it. JSONObjets and JSONArrays are created each having the respective name of: "jsonobject," "rowheaders," "colheaders," and "data." From there the converter goes into a for loop running from String string until the iterator is empty and with each iteration the JSONarray colheaders gets added a string. After the for loop has finished, a while loop begins that creates a new JSONArray called "collie" aloing with a string array called "rowdata." The JSONArray "rowheaders" now begins to add data into the array "rowdata." As this all happens a for loop begins that runs for the entire length of rowdata, and while it's running all of the now organized data is added back the JSONArray COllie. After the while loop completes all of the information in "collie" is now added to the JSONArray "data." Finally, the JSONObjects "rowheaders," "Colheaders," and "data" are put with their respective data fields and results becomes filled with the JSONObjects as they're turned into JSONStrings with the return of results being trimmed before being sent off.

For the json to CSV converter a new "results" string is created and from there the converter now begins to try making a Stringwriter called "writer" and a CSWriter called "cswriter." From there a JSONArray parser and object are made and named in order: "jsonArray," "parser," and "jsonObject." Then three more jsonObjects are made with the names "rowheaders," "colheaders," and "data" along with three string arrays nameed "colstringArray," "rowsstirngArray," and "datastringArray." The first of three for loops begins that runs through the size of colheaders and has the colstringArray equal the current colHeader as it's turned into a string. After the for loops finishes csvwriter writes the information to colstringArray and the second for loop begins, and that one runs through the entire size of rowheaders. As it runs the current spot of rowstirngArray is set to equal the current rowheader as it's turned into a string and data string aray is set to equal the curent data.get as it's turned into a string. After the final for loops runs the data is ready for output and is set to equal results after being written to a string and trimmed.
